Okay then. That’s what I’ll do. I’ll tell you a story. Can you hear them? All these people who lived in terror of you and your judgment. All these people whose ancestors devoted themselves, sacrificed themselves, to you. Can you hear them singing? Oh, you like to think you’re a God. Well, you’re not a God — you’re just a parasite, eaten out with jealous, envy, and longing for the lives of others. You feed on them. On the memory of love, and loss, and birth, and death, and joy, and sorrow… so… so… come on then, take mine. Take. My. Memories. But I hope you’ve got a big appetite.
Because I have lived a long life, and I have seen a few things. I walked away from the last Great Time War. I marked the passing of the Time Lords. I saw the birth of the universe and I watched as time ran out, moment by moment, until nothing remained — no time, no space, JUST ME! 
I walked in universes where the laws of physics were devised by the mind of a mad man. And I’ve watched universes freeze, and creation burn — I have seen things you wouldn't believe and I have lost things you will never understand — and I know things. Secrets that must never be told. Knowledge that must never be spoken! 
knowledge that will make. parasite gods. blaze! so come on then!!! take it!!!! take it all, baby!!!!! have it! you have it all!!!!!!!!!!



everybody knows that everybody dies, but not every day. Not today.
Some days are special. Some days are so, so blessed. Some days, nobody dies at all. Now and then, every once in a very long while, every day in a million days, when the wind stands fair and the Doctor comes to call, everybody lives.

I took you with me because I was vain, because I wanted to be adored. Look at you: glorious Pond. The girl who waited for me. I’m not a hero. I really am just a madman with a box. And it’s time we both saw each other as we really are.

The turn of the earth. The ground beneath our feet is spinning at a thousand miles an hour. The entire planet is hurtling around the sun at sixty seven thousand miles an hour. And I can feel it. We’re falling through space, you and me, clinging to the skin of this tiny little world. And, if we let go…that’s who I am.

Now, the question for the hour is, “Who’s got the Pandorica?” Answer: I do. Next question: “Who’s coming to take it from me?” Come on, look at me! No plan, no backup, no weapons worth a damn, oh, and something else I don’t have: anything to lose! So, if you’re sitting up there in your silly little space ships with all your silly little guns, and you’ve got any plans on taking the Pandorica tonight, just remember who’s standing in your way! Remember every black day I ever stopped you, and then, *and then*, do the smart thing! Let somebody else try first.


He’s like fire and ice and rage. He’s like the night and the storm in the heart of the sun. He’s ancient and forever. He burns at the centre of time and can see the turn of the universe. And… he’s wonderful.


But that implies, in this big grand scheme of gods and devils, that she’s just a victim. Well, I’ve seen a lot of this universe. I’ve seen fake gods and bad gods and demi-gods and would-be gods. I’ve had the whole pantheon. But if I believe in one thing… just one thing… I believe in her!

This leaf isn’t just the past, it’s a whole future that never happened. There are billions and millions of every unlived days for every day we live, an infinity. All the days that never came. And these are all my Mum’s.

I DON’T KNOW! I mean, I know I’m the Doctor, but beyond that, I-I just don’t know. I literally do not know who I am. So I’m testing. Am I funny? Am I sarcastic? Sexy? I mean, judging by the evidence I’ve certainly got a gob! And how am I gonna react when I see this? A great, big, threatening button. A great, big, threatening button which must not be pressed under any circumstances, am I right?…Which leaves us with a great, big, stinkin’ problem: I really don’t know who I am. I don’t know when to stop. So if I see a great, big, threatening button which should never ever ever be pressed, then I just want to do this.

“You told me the name you chose was a promise. What was the promise?” “Never cruel or cowardly.” “Never give up, never give in.”

I'm the Doctor. I'm a Time Lord. I'm from the planet Gallifrey in the Constellation of Kasterborous. I'm 903 years old and I'm the man who is gonna save your lives and all 6 billion people on the planet below. You got a problem with that?

The way I see it, every life is a pile of good things and bad things. The good things don’t always soften the bad things, but vice versa the bad things don’t always spoil the good things and make them unimportant

It all just disappears, doesn't it? Everything you are, gone in a moment, like breath on a mirror. Any moment now... He's a-comin'. Who's coming?The Doctor You. You are the Doctor.Yep, and I always will be.  But times change, and so must I. Amelia!Who's Amelia?The first face this face saw. We all change. When you think about it, we're all different people all through our lives, and that's okay, that's good, you gotta keep moving, so long as you remember all people that you used to be. I will not forget one line of this. Not one day. I swear. I will always remember when the Doctor was me.Raggedy man... Goodnight.

Clara sometimes asks me if I dream. "Of course I dream", I tell her. "Everybody dreams". "But what do you dream about?", she'll ask. "The same thing everybody dreams about", I tell her. "I dream about where I'm going." She always laughs at that. "But you're not going anywhere, you're just wandering about." That's not true. Not anymore. I have a new destination. My journey is the same as yours, the same as anyone's. It's taken me so many years, so many lifetimes, but at last I know where I'm going. Where I've always been going. Home. The long way round.

Nobody important? Blimey, that's amazing. You know that in nine hundred years of time and space and I've never met anybody who wasn't important before.